[Music]
it's hard to make friends as an adult
it's hard to remain sober as an adult
these two things are linked if you are
sober as an adult
you don't want to go to bars you don't
want to meet up with people
at a nightclub and for this reason
it's not as easy to make friends and for
this reason it's not as easy to maintain
friendships however at a certain point
you have to make an ethical commitment
you have to decide am i going to live my
life
drunk am i going to live my life high
or am i going to live my life sober
do i value the clarity of mind that
comes with
living sober living without drugs living
without alcohol
if not why not why is it so hard to have
a clarity of mind
why is it so hard to live with your
brain as it is
why do you want to inflict brain damage
on yourself
maybe you in the audience right now
you're doing drugs
maybe you're in the audience have the
experience of doing drugs in the past
and you're trying to stay sober maybe
you know somebody
who has done drugs in the past maybe you
know somebody who's doing drugs now
and you see this happen before your eyes
you see that they don't have clarity of
mind you
might have known them before you might
have known them as a different person
you might have seen them as an ambitious
person you might have seen them as
somebody who could get things done and
fundamentally because of their drug
addiction because of their alcohol use
they can't get things done they aren't
growing they aren't making an effort to
be the best that they can
when you decide that you don't value the
clarity of mind that you have
when you're sober when you want to be
drunk when you want to forget things
when you want your life to be a blur
you've given up you've given up on life
you've decided
life is too hard life is too hard sober
i just can't do it when i was in high
school i had ambition
i wanted to go to university and i
wanted a good career
i wanted a future for myself i wanted to
contribute to society
i felt that i could contribute to
society i had made the decision in high
school to
be sober if i wanted to get into
university
i knew that i needed to stay sober and i
needed to perform well
i studied really hard performed well in
my classes
i stayed busy with choir i stayed busy
with orchestra
i really did value the clarity of mine
that i had sober
i applied to schools and i got accepted
to the university of michigan
this was such a big accomplishment for
me and i was really proud
i was proud that the hard work that i'd
put into my studies had paid
off once i got to university though once
i was out of the
structure of the home life once i was
out of my parents house
and living in a dorm room with three
other girls
my perspective changed pretty quickly
everybody around me was drinking
everybody around me was going to parties
i wanted friendship
i wanted love freshman year of college
is when i first got into a romantic
relationship
i fell for a guy who wasn't at my
university
he was in my hometown he had a lot of
experience with drugs
he had a lot of experience with alcohol
he was older than me
and more experienced than me the company
you keep
changes who you are although i had been
so committed
to being sober in high school because i
surrounded myself with people who
weren't sober this commitment this
stance of mine fell by the wayside i
wasn't drinking every weekend
i wasn't smoking weed every weekend at
first
it's a slippery slope once you first
start doing these things
you either make the decision that you
will only do it infrequently
or it becomes a habit it becomes
habitual when you're first
getting into adulthood when you're out
on your own for the first time
it's not so easy to be alone and it's
not so easy
to not have friends to talk to and it's
not so easy to feel like you don't fit
in
i wanted to fit in and i did i drank
and i smoked weed starting my freshman
year of college
now i knew marijuana wasn't good i was
so opposed to it for so many years
it was offered to me at parties and i
refused
i felt committed to staying sober and i
said no
i wanted to drive home sober i didn't
want to be high
i drank alcohol in college like most
people
and for me it was not enjoyable
i almost always got sick and people
got really worried for me when i was
sick people did take care of me
but sometimes i was so sick and
everybody else was drunk
there was nobody to take care of me i
had to take care of myself
i decided i still wanted to be able to
party with friends i still wanted to
attend these social gatherings
and i didn't want to be sober i didn't
want to be the one person sober at these
events
and so marijuana became more and more a
part of my life
marijuana didn't make me feel sick and
also i didn't notice a hangover the next
day
i didn't feel bad the next day at least
the effects of marijuana the next day
were subtle enough that i didn't notice
them i thought that it was good that i
could
socialize with friends and i could have
this in common with some people
while also being under the influence of
some drug being under the influence of
something when i'm at these parties
where everybody else is under the
influence of
alcohol or marijuana or a combination of
those two
or some other drugs definitely there
were other drugs offered to me at
parties
and i refused those other drugs i never
did harder drugs
than marijuana it was just marijuana and
alcohol for
quite a few years for me in college and
for a couple years after college
nobody seemed concerned about this in
fact my boyfriend at the time
encouraged me to smoke marijuana he saw
that i
sometimes experienced stress because of
school and he would encourage me to
smoke marijuana that it would relax me
and i wouldn't be so worried about my
schooling that i wouldn't be so worried
about my education
sadly i took his advice i smoked
marijuana when i felt stressed out about
school
instead of taking that valuable time to
worry about my future
to worry about my education to worry
about my career
to join social clubs and try to focus
as much as i possibly could on
developing into
a functional adult who didn't need drugs
in order to cope
with the difficult emotions that can
happen when you're
feeling stressed out about classes when
you're feeling stressed out about
passing exams
instead of being able to cope with that
instead of building up coping mechanisms
that involves being self-disciplined
instead of learning healthy ways to cope
with stress and anxiety
i turned to drugs one semester i was
taking a lot of difficult classes
i took physics neurobiology and organic
chemistry
unfortunately i failed organic chemistry
and i did very poorly in those other two
science classes now at that point my
parents were concerned
that i had been put on academic
probation and because
i had performed so poorly in those
science classes
i gave up i gave up on the idea of
majoring in biology
i gave up on the idea of becoming a
medical doctor i gave up on applying to
medical school at that point
i decided you know what these classes
are too difficult for me
i don't think i can do them my parents
were concerned about my academic
performance but
they didn't know about the drug use they
didn't know that i was smoking marijuana
regularly
and they didn't know that i was drinking
alcohol regularly my boyfriend did
and one of my roommates did you might
have thought i would have learned this
lesson that doing drugs can impair
friendships but sadly i didn't learn
that lesson
i smoked weed when i lived in an
apartment with one of my good friends
from high school and middle school we
were living together
and she herself didn't smoke marijuana
but i did at the time
and this came in between us and she
didn't like living in an apartment where
she could smell marijuana
to this day i really regret that i
played a negative part in her life
that in that situation i was the bad
roommate i was the bad roommate that was
smoking marijuana
and making her life worse it was really
selfish of me
i was just thinking about my own
problems i was thinking about my own
stress
i wasn't thinking about her stress and i
wasn't sharing with her i wasn't talking
with her about some of these stresses
that was the problem i didn't want to
talk to people about the stress i didn't
want to talk about the anxiety
i didn't want to talk about how i was
becoming dependent on using marijuana to
cope with these things
i only talked to my boyfriend about it
and he himself used drugs to cope with
stress he himself
used alcohol drink alcohol in order to
cope with stress
i was learning from somebody who was an
addict himself to become an addict
to become dependent on a drug instead of
learning to cope with stress instead of
learning to cope with these difficulties
instead of learning to cope with failing
a class but then trying again
i didn't try again i decided this is too
difficult for me
i gave up i quit trying with science
classes
i quit trying to go to medical school i
gave up
i gave up on the idea of becoming a
medical doctor something that had
for many years been a part of my career
planning looking back on it now
i don't think it was the best career
path for me but
i do regret the kind of ambition that i
lost
even if i hadn't become a medical doctor
i did lose the ambition to become
a real professional ultimately what i
decided at that time was
i would get my degree in english i knew
that i was pretty good at writing
and i knew that i could pass my english
classes and graduate
after graduating from college i
continued to smoke marijuana
and you might think that because smoking
marijuana
relieves stress because it makes you
feel better
that i might have been happy at that
time but the truth was i was not happy
i didn't know where i was going with my
career i had graduated with a degree in
english
and it wasn't really clear what career
path i was going to pursue after that
i got a part-time job working for a
psychologist while i continued taking
classes in speech-language pathology
i was considering for quite a few years
going into
speech-language pathology although i
wasn't going to become a medical doctor
i thought
this can still help people i can still
help people who need help with
speaking who need help with their
disorders my oldest brother struggled
with a stutter
so from personal experience i knew how
important it was
to have good speech pathologists i knew
how crucial speech therapists could be
in the lives of others
and i wanted to help other people and
i'll never know if i would have
continued on that path if i would have
just gotten committed would i have been
more ambitious
would i have gotten on that career path
or would i have found another career
path would i have kept searching
would i have found something eventually
if i had had that ambition if i was
really trying
if i wasn't fogging my mind with
marijuana at that time
if i had stopped if i had decided no
this is such an important time in my
life
i need to figure out what i'm doing with
my career
if at that time i hadn't been smoking
marijuana what kind of progress could i
have made
i didn't have that clarity of mind that
you need when you're trying to figure
out what you're doing with your life
it's so hard as it is finding the right
career path for you when you're sober
if you resort to drugs to cope with the
stress you are ignoring
the fundamental problem you're pushing
the problem to the side when you should
be worrying about it when you should be
making that your primary focus
and i was deeply unhappy i was deeply
unhappy with my situation
i was lost i felt hopeless i had such
negative thoughts
i went to a doctor and i asked him what
i can take
to feel better and i was prescribed
lexapro this is an antidepressant drug
so
smoking marijuana didn't make me happy
smoking marijuana
and drinking alcohol didn't make me
happy what else can i do
to feel happy i had some misgivings
before i started that medication
i had taken two psychology classes in my
university
and i learned about antidepressants i
had learned about prozac
the psychiatric establishment is in
favor of prescribing antidepressants
to people who feel depressed i never got
a diagnosis
i never saw a psychiatrist i never saw a
psychologist i never even saw a
counselor
the doctor my primary care physician
dispensed an antidepressant to me
i read the warning label i read what the
side effects were
and it was scary i didn't know for sure
if i should take this
i sat down at the kitchen table with my
parents and i told them
i've really been feeling so bad lately
i've been having so many arguments with
my boyfriend
i'm not doing well i want to do better
they said your doctor wouldn't prescribe
this to you if it was unsafe they put so
many warning labels on all these drugs
just try it see what happens so not only
was i smoking marijuana not only was i
drinking alcohol
i also was on an antidepressant did i
feel happy
i basically felt more flat than i
had before i felt like the extreme highs
and extreme lows
were evened out so that i didn't really
have the same
level of emotions that i had before
there wasn't much in my life that i felt
passionate about but i did
feel really passionately about veganism
once i became vegan
i was looking online for people who were
also vegan
i was looking for others who shared the
same passion
and i found izamazard who is also known
by his youtube channel named abella yell
it's scary to admit to yourself that
every time you drink alcohol
you are causing brain damage to yourself
and you should be scared i notice that
we seem to have an easier time
ethically thinking about these things
when they impact others
it doesn't seem to be difficult to
convince people that they should drink
zero alcohol during pregnancy because
drinking alcohol during pregnancy
every dose every drink even one beer
even more glasswine
every drink causes brain damage to the
unborn baby
um it seems to be much more difficult to
convince people that they should not
drink alcohol
because every drink causes brain damage
to you the person deciding to drink it
now again to me what's interesting here
is that alcohol is wrapped up in all
these cultural values
and those are very hard for people to
question it may be that you've grown up
in the happiest times of your life
are all associated with alcohol
and you have to look at the simple grim
reality of alcohol causing brain damage
again to reiterate my earlier point this
is totally unrelated to the checklist of
does it cause cancer what are the
impacts on my liver
what are the impacts on my blood
circulation cancer is deadly serious
but in another sense brain damage even
very minor brain damage
is also serious now i quit drinking
alcohol at a very young age i basically
quit drinking alcohol when it became
legal for me in canada as a teenager
but i for instance i know that i have
brain damage
caused by using anti-malarial drugs
drugs that prevent you from getting
malaria i didn't use them very long i
didn't use very much
but yes it is a very strange thing to
live your life and know that at a
specific point you took a drug even a
legitimate
pharmaceutical medical drug that has a
real medical benefit
and it caused you brain damage and
changed the way you think and feel
forever
in the case of marijuana and alcohol
you're talking about brain damage which
is not
associated with any legitimate medical
benefit
so my advice to anyone would be to get
familiar with those facts
and to make the choice not to drink less
alcohol but to drink absolutely zero
alcohol
for those reasons it
blew my mind not because i didn't know
that alcohol causes brain damage that's
one of the first things i learned about
alcohol in the drug classes that they
gave to
our schools the presentations dare
that's what they told us
they said that alcohol kills brain cells
but
it seemed to be this fact that people
ignored
i didn't ignore it in high school i
didn't drink alcohol because
i didn't want to be stupid i didn't want
it to make me stupider
but in the adult world when i got into
adulthood when i was surrounded by
people in college who were drinking
alcohol
i drank alcohol when i was in a
relationship with somebody who drank
alcohol
i drank alcohol it was something that i
had pushed to the side that i knew was
true
but i didn't want to face up to it i
lived my life
pretending like it wasn't happening when
it was
so when i saw his video i thought this
is the first person
that i've seen without fear without
hesitation
just being confident in his decision to
not drink alcohol
as an adult it changed me it made me
feel
more confident in my decision to stop
drinking alcohol
i'd always struggled with feeling sick
from alcohol i mostly smoked marijuana
but when i did drink alcohol i often got
sick
so this is what pushed me over the edge
to decide that i was going to stop
drinking alcohol
seeing isil's video talking about this
gave me the kind of confidence gave me
the kind of
reassurance that i could stop drinking
alcohol too so i stopped
and i actually stopped smoking marijuana
for a while too i was finally
starting to feel a little bit more
clarity ezelmazard had such a huge
influence on me
had such a big influence on how i was
thinking about my future
and seeing isil talk so eloquently about
so many different topics on his youtube
channel inspired me
his videos had made such an impact on my
life that i wanted to know him and i
wanted to express
how much his videos meant to me and over
time i became more and more passionate
i became more and more interested in
isil and i reached out to him
and i decided i really want to meet this
guy
i made the extremely difficult decision
to end my relationship of six years
i started to see what a negative
influence that relationship had on my
life
i had been with somebody who was always
going to do drugs
somebody who was always going to drink
somebody who wasn't committed to the
same ethical ideals that i was
later on when i explained this history
to my parents that i had smoked
marijuana and that this had played a
role in my
relationship they didn't seem that
concerned about it they didn't think it
was that bad
what they wanted was for me to be happy
and they thought
that if smoking marijuana made me happy
then i should keep doing it
and this was surprising to me i really
thought that they would be against
marijuana and
when i talked to more people about it i
got to see the different reactions
some people just take more of an
attitude of
whatever it takes to make you happy
ultimately there has only been one
person in my life who's cared enough
about my well-being
to tell me that i shouldn't use these
drugs
that i shouldn't be on an antidepressant
somebody who's done the research
who knows that marijuana causes brain
damage now when i got together with isil
it wasn't really easy for me to cope it
really wasn't easy to stop smoking
marijuana
it wasn't easy to stop taking an
antidepressant and it wasn't easy to
stop drinking alcohol
he had done a lot of research on
anti-depressants
and he really cared about my well-being
he didn't want me to be taking
antidepressants and he's the only person
in my life who has cared enough about my
well-being to be honest with me to tell
me
honestly to be straight with me to be
real
and say melissa antidepressants cause
brain damage
melissa marijuana causes brain damage
somebody who's cared enough about me to
do this research to compile this
research
to make videos talking about this
research to be talking about how
marijuana causes brain damage
how antidepressants cause brain damage
this has been
so helpful in my life it's changed how i
see
my mental health how i view life
how i view struggles with life isil's
motivation
his ambition his joy de vivre his just
enjoyment of the struggle his decision
to embrace some of the difficulties in
life and to learn from those
difficulties in life
getting through life coping with mental
health problems
coping with stress coping with anxiety
it's not about sedating yourself
it's not about constantly living your
life in a blur
it's about remembering it's about
learning from the things
that you've gone through the experiences
the suffering
it's about learning how to cope it's
about getting better
and over time you will get better if you
just
try if you try to get better if you
fundamentally have a positive outlook
on going through difficulties in your
life because everybody goes through
difficulties
there's nobody on this earth who doesn't
have anything to be angry about who
doesn't have anything to be sad about
nobody has had a perfect life everybody
has struggles everybody deals with
things
nobody is perfect everybody has to learn
to go through these things and be a
better person for what they've been
through
it's so broken that in our society
people are told to take drugs
people don't care enough about the other
people in their lives to be honest with
them
when they start using drugs when they
start taking a psychiatric medication
and this is all too human where they
start making excuses for taking drugs
when they start making excuses for
taking psychiatric medications
because they've been given a diagnosis
or because they just feel sad
you want the people in your life to be
happy but it's so hard
to say to them look i've done the
research
i've learned about these drugs these
drugs are bad
these drugs are not going to help the
problems that you have
are not going to be solved by sedating
yourself my doctor
didn't care enough about me to say you
know melissa
you're just starting out your adult life
you're just starting out in your career
maybe you're going through some of these
stresses maybe you're going through some
of these difficulties
and you shouldn't start taking this
medication it was so normal for him to
prescribe these medications to his
patients that
he didn't say anything otherwise he
didn't say maybe you should talk to
somebody first
he gave these medications to me just
because i said i feel sad
i feel stressed i feel worried well i
had reasons to feel sad i had reasons to
feel stressed
and worried those things were not going
to go away
by taking a drug and they didn't life
can't be about pushing
all those things that you're stressed
out about to the side fundamentally it's
learning to cope with these difficulties
learning to cope
with the stresses in healthy ways
and say i'm so glad i'm alive i love
being alive even if it
means that i suffer that's what
isomazard believes
that's how he really lives his life he
lives his life every day motivated to
get things done
motivated to be creative he is a
wonderful man
he really really cares about people in
his life
he really cares enough to be honest with
them to fundamentally
tell them hey you're making a mistake
this could be really serious
i'm worried about you we might think
it's better we might think it's normal
that if somebody starts taking a drug
and they say that they've started this
medication because they're dealing with
struggles in their life if they say that
they're struggling with
life they don't want to live they want
to give up
but they can't give up and so they're
starting this medication
it might seem like the right thing to do
to say good for you
you know you're doing something about it
but really if you look into the
medications if you look into the
research if you read a book
i have a book here
anatomy of an epidemic this is about
antidepressants this is about
psychiatric medications
and how the research shows that they are
debunked
they don't help people they don't they
harm people
but people are still prescribed them
doctors still prescribe them
they should be required reading but it's
not
we can't expect schools to teach these
things we can't expect schools to talk
about
mental health people in their lives
in their children's lives in their
parents lives and their uncles aunts
grandparents grandchildren's lives they
have to care about
these things the onus is on you to do
this research
the onus is on you to learn about these
things
the schools won't tell you your teachers
won't tell you you have to do this
research for yourself
and it's not going to matter by hearing
somebody else tell it to you
what is going to matter is you doing the
research by
you examining it and you can decide
maybe this research is all
[ __ ] you know i'm going to take the
drugs anyway i'm going to drink alcohol
anyway
that's your decision but if you
fundamentally don't care
what does that say about you if you want
to live a life
where you're totally living your life in
a blur
when you're not paying attention when
you can't pay attention because you
can't cope with life without a drug
without being sedated
you can't get through the week without
being focused on how you're going to
drink alcohol on the weekend
or you can't get through the day without
thinking about how you're going to be
smoking marijuana that evening how
you're going to relax
watch some tv and smoke marijuana you
know
maybe you can instead of viewing life as
just
a struggle before you go home and smoke
marijuana
maybe you can see life instead
as something that is worth it because of
that struggle
it's not that you get through your job
in order to go smoke marijuana and
that's the meaning of life
this happiness that you get from a drug
this happiness that you get
from drinking alcohol that that's what
life's about
the other 40 hours a week where you're
at work or
when you have children when your time is
taken up with child care
and you think i can't wait to have a
drink what kind of influence are you
having on your children
that it's okay to drink it's okay if you
feel stressed out about work if you feel
stressed out about your family life
that you're going to drink alcohol
that's what you're teaching your
children
and that's why we live in a society
where you can't have friends when you're
in your 20s unless you drink alcohol and
do drugs
or you have to really really make an
effort to find people who are also of
the same mindset
and build that community yourself
otherwise you won't find it otherwise
you'll be alone
i have isil we're together he's totally
changed my perspective
on life and i'm so glad that he's in my
life
i am so glad that i went and met him i'm
so
glad that i have this opportunity i have
a wonderful
life and even if there are struggles
even if there are sadness even if we've
had so many difficulties in our
relationship
i love him i love him so much he's
helped me so much
sorry to be crying sorry to be tearing
up about this
but really he has fundamentally made me
a better person
the onus is on you to make the lives of
those around you better
even if it's hard even if you have to
have conflict with people
even if it's difficult to know what the
right answer is
you have to try and you have to care if
you really love someone if you really
care for someone who's struggling with
suicidal thoughts if you're struggling
with somebody who's feeling hopeless
about their lives
if you know somebody whose lives are so
difficult that they don't want to
continue them
that they fundamentally have to change
something encourage them to do something
with their lives to make a change in
their lives that doesn't include
mind-altering drugs that doesn't include
brain damage
brain damage is not going to solve their
problems
instead what can really help what can
really change
is philosophically how you feel life
what the point of life is
figuring out what your purpose is on
this planet making a purpose for
yourself
and yes it's going to involve failure
maybe something that you try doesn't
work out
and you have to decide to do something
else but that's
not the end of the world you can change
careers you can change your
lifestyle you can change your home life
you can change fundamental things about
your life
to improve your life you can change your
mind you can change your mindset
a cheesy phrase that i heard growing up
was attitude is everything
and sadly it's taken me 28 years of my
life to really
believe that it may be hard to have
friendships as an adult it may be
difficult to have conflict with others
it may be difficult to
be honest it may be difficult to live
with ethical and moral commitments and
still have people in your life
but it is worth it it is worth it to
find those people who are also
interested in living a morally and
ethically aligned life
i wish i would have stayed sober after
high school i wish i would have
maintained the stance that i had against
drugs and alcohol
but i didn't sadly i fell into peer
pressure
i fell into typical american
university life and i will never know
how i would have turned out differently
had i not smoked marijuana had i not
drank alcohol
had i not started an antidepressant i
can't change what happened in the past
but every day i can decide
that even if there are difficulties in
life i'm going to take a positive
attitude toward them
i'm not going to let it ruin my day and
i'm not going to let difficulties
ruin anyone else's day that this is
fundamentally
what life is about that these struggles
it's not something to be avoided
it's not that you want to sedate
yourself in order to not deal with
struggles in your life
that this is life and i'm so glad that
i've gone through what i have with
eisenmazard
i am so glad that fundamentally my
mindset has changed
because otherwise i don't know where i
would have ended up
i really don't i was using marijuana and
i was on an anti-depressant before i met
him
and who knows what kind of person i
would be otherwise
but i'm so glad that i get to know the
person that i am today
and i'm so glad that i get to live my
life with isil and i get to live my life
with somebody who's committed to an
ethical lifestyle
i'm so glad i got out of the lifestyle
that i was in
i'm so glad that i'm with somebody who
has helped me
grow as a person i'm so glad that i have
somebody who's given me
so many chances i can't even count at
this point i'm so glad i found somebody
who really loves me
who really cares for me who really is
concerned about my well-being
somebody who doesn't want me to live in
ignorance somebody who doesn't want me
to live sedated
somebody who wants me to experience all
that life has to offer
sober that i get to live with somebody
who is sober
and i don't feel the pressure to do
drugs i don't feel the pressure to drink
alcohol
somebody who wakes up and feels
motivated somebody who wants to read
somebody who wants to research somebody
who wants to create
somebody who wants to educate somebody
who wants to help others
i know that he will always be somebody
who's creative
i know that he will always recover from
anything in his life
and he will get back on his feet and he
will
enjoy life he loves life people don't
have this
zest for life people don't have this joy
for life anymore
and i really think that's what's missing
in a lot of mental health
a lot of discussions about mental health
is just about making excuses for
struggles that people have in life that
ultimately are self-inflicted
it's better to feel proud that you did
the best you could
that you helped people in your life that
you tried
even if they weren't willing to accept
your help
that you tried i think this is something
really lacking
in discussions about mental health
discussions about
how to cope with difficulties in life
without resorting to drugs
how to learn to enjoy the struggle how
to learn to
embrace the difficulties in your life
and learn from them
and not let it negatively impact the
lives of those around you
if you're stressed out about something
don't hurt those around you
if you feel a lack of purpose in your
life that's
so common everybody has to deal with it
at some point in their lives where they
feel directionless
where they don't know what they're doing
but you have to try you have to do
research you can't just disappear
going through these struggles building
up yourself
dealing with difficulties in your life
that's what life is all about that's
what it's like
to become a better person that's what
it's like to help other people
to try really hard and care about the
people in your life
even if it's difficult to really care
this is what life is about
helping others building a community and
you know what the kind of friendships
that you get from drinking alcohol the
kind of friendships that you get from
doing drugs
that's not what this is that's not what
i'm talking about what i'm talking about
is really caring for other people's
well-being
being concerned about them and trying
your best
doing what you can helping people when
you can if there's only one other person
if there's only my boyfriend who we
fundamentally agree
on living life in an ethical way on not
drinking alcohol and not doing drugs and
not sedating yourself
struggling through things and learning
and embracing the difficulties in life
and
finding happiness and joy in these
difficulties
if it's just he and i that's okay
if it's just me that's what i've learned
that's what isil has taught me
he's struggled so hard to try to teach
this to me
i was not the most receptive learner to
this very thing
if you fundamentally wake up and feel
motivated to learn
motivated to teach motivated to love
motivated to make friendships
if you wake up feeling ambitious and
getting through the day
because you know that you're doing your
best living a life that's aligned
with what you feel is the right thing to
do living your life ethically
this is the solution to people's mental
health problems
part of the struggles that i've been
through were because i lost the ambition
that i used to have
because i struggled in college because i
had difficulties because i failed
and instead of embracing that failure
and learning from that failure
i was told to do drugs i was told to not
feel stressed out
i was told to relax no that's not what i
should have done
i needed someone who really cared about
me somebody who was really concerned
about my well-being and wanted to teach
me this
fundamental fact and i'm so glad that i
finally did find somebody who really
cares about me
who really loves me who really has done
his best to teach me this lesson